Add AppCDS documentation (#30916)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/appcds.adoc

////
This guide is maintained in the main Quarkus repository
and pull requests should be submitted there:
https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus/tree/main/docs/src/main/asciidoc
////

> = Command Mode Applications

Reviewer: The title looks off?

Author: OOPS!

include::_attributes.adoc[]
:categories: core, cloud
:summary: This reference guide explains how to enable AppCDS with Quarkus.

This reference guide explains how to enable Application Class Data Sharing in your Quarkus applications.

== What is Application Class Data Sharing (AppCDS)?

> link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/vm/class-data-sharing.html[Application Class Data Sharing] is a JVM feature that helps reduce the startup time and memory footprint of a JVM application.

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't this point to `https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/specs/man/java.html#application-class-data-sharing` ? There is CDS (Class Data Sharing) and *Application* Class Data Sharing.

Author: Sure, why not

Author: Sure, fixed

> link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/vm/class-data-sharing.html[Application Class Data Sharing] is a JVM feature that helps reduce the startup time and memory footprint of a JVM application.

Reviewer: Given 17 is our default JDK, I would rather use this version of the doc:
```suggestion
link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/vm/class-data-sharing.html[Application Class Data Sharing] is a JVM feature that helps reduce the startup time and memory footprint of a JVM application.
```

Author: Sure yeah, I was wondering this myself

This is achieved by having the JVM create a pre-processed shared archived of classes that are loaded at startup time. As these classes
are loaded every time the application starts, AppCDS is a conceptually simple way of improving the application startup time,
without the application itself having to be coded or configured in a specific way. How much of an improvement depends on many factors, such as the number of classes loaded, the underlying hardware etc.

== Vanilla AppCDS generation

> The main downside of using AppCDS is that they are generated by launching the application with special flags and having the JVM generate the archive that can then be used in subsequent application launches.

Reviewer 3: Why is that a downside? That looks like a upside to me :)

Author: If you like making your life harder, sure, it's an upside :)

Reviewer 3: I mean that this statement looks like an upside, not the process ;)

Author: How about now?

Reviewer 3: Looks good. Thanks!

Assuming we are using the same JVM to run the application as we used to build the application, we can launch the application like so:

[source,bash]
----
cd target/quarkus-app
java -XX:SharedArchiveFile=app-cds.jsa -jar quarkus-run.jar
----

[TIP]
====
The JVM is resilient faced with a situation where the archive file is not usable (for whatever reason) and will simply disable the AppCDS feature in such a case.

If it is desirable that the JVM should simply halt if the archive is not usable, the following command line invocation can be used:

[source,bash]
----
java -Xshare:on -XX:SharedArchiveFile=app-cds.jsa -jar quarkus-run.jar
----
====

[NOTE]
====
Given what was mentioned above about how the application needs to be launched in order for the archive to be built, the question arises of how Quarkus deals with this situation.

The answer is that at application build time, right after the application archive is built, Quarkus launches the application, but only the parts of the launch process that are safe are run.
More specifically, the application is run up until the steps that actually open sockets or run application logic.

> This results in the archive process that one hand is completely safe to generate, but on the other hand not being able to archive every single class that the application might need during boot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This results in the archive process that on one hand is completely safe to generate, but on the other hand not being able to archive every single class that the application might need during boot
```

> This results in the archive process that on one hand is completely safe to generate, but on the other hand not being able to archive every single class that the application might need during boot
> (which is why users will get a slightly more effective archive if they manually go through the hoops of generating the AppCDS archive).

Reviewer 4: Suggestion:

```suggestion
This results in an archive generation process that on one hand is completely safe, but on the other hand is unable to archive every single class that the application might need at boot time.
As a result, users are expected to get a slightly more effective archive if they manually go through the hoops of generating the AppCDS archive.
```

====

=== Usage in containers

> When building container images using the `quarkus-container-image-jib` extension, Quarkus automatically takes care of all the steps needed to make generate the archive

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When building container images using the `quarkus-container-image-jib` extension, Quarkus automatically takes care of all the steps needed to generate the archive
```

and make it usable at runtime in the container.

> This way, by simply setting `quarkus.package.create-appcds` to `true` the generate container can benefit from a slight reduction in startup time and memory usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This way, by simply setting `quarkus.package.create-appcds` to `true` the generated container can benefit from a slight reduction in startup time and memory usage.
```
